General terms and conditions of business  
and carriage of schauinsland-reisen gmbh

Dear customer, 

The following travel terms and conditions will be part of the package travel contract concluded between you (hereinafter referred to  
as “customer”) and us (hereinafter referred to as  “operator”). 
With the exception of the provisions in clause 2.6., 5.3., 6.2. sentence 2 and 15, these conditions apply mutatis mutandis  
to contracts on supplying accommodation services without any further travel services (e. g. “hotel only”, “holiday house only”,  
“apartment only”).
With the exception of the provisions in clause 2.6., 5.3., 6.2. Sentence 2, 7.4., 12.2., 12.3. and 15, these conditions apply mutatis mutandis to 
contracts on air transportation without any further travel services (flight-only).
The marginal taxation is levied by the operator (travel service in private customer segment); hence these travel services do not comprise  
any sales taxes.

1. 
1.1. 

1.2. 

 Conclusion of contract / duties of fellow passengers
 The  following  information  apply  to  all  booking  channels  (e.  g. 
travel agencies, direct booking at the tour operator, by telephone, 
online, etc.):
a)   The service is based on the service description and additional 
information provided by the tour operator for the respective 
tour or other booked service to the extent that the customer 
is in possession of them when booking the travel.

b)   If the customer makes booking for travellers, he must take 
responsibility  for  all  contractual  obligations  towards  these 
travellers as well as towards his own ones as far as he as-
sumed obligations by an explicit and separate declaration.
c)   If  the  contents  of  the  tour  operator’s  declaration  of  accept-
ance differ from the contents of the booking, a new offer will 
be made by the tour operator is at hand which he is bound 
to for the duration of ten days. The contract comes into effect 
based on this new offer as far as the operator referred to the 
changes and fulfilled his pre-contractual information require-
ments and the customer declares his acceptance to the tour 
operator by explicit declaration or deposit.

d)   The pre-contractual information provided by the tour opera-
tor on essential characteristics of booked services, the agreed 
upon price and all additional costs, payment terms, the min-
imum number of participants, and cancellation fees shall not 
be considered as part of the contract only if there is an ex-
press prior agreement between both parties beforehand.
e)   If  a  price  reduction  is  the  exclusive  preserve  of  children  or 
there is no charge for infants, the child’s/infant’s age on the 
agreed date of return is decisive. The then age must be stat-
ed with the booking.

 The  following  information  apply  to  all  bookings  made  by  tele-
phone, in writing, by SMS, by e-mail or by fax:
a)   During  booking  (registration)  the  tour  operator  is  bindingly 

b)   The contract becomes effective when the customer receives 
a travel confirmation by the tour operator. When the contract 
is concluded or after a conclusion contract the operator will 
convey a travel confirmation that complies with legal require-
ments to the customer. The confirmation will be transferred 
by the tour operator to the customer on a durable medium. 
The medium will enable the customer to keep the confirma-
tion unchanged or store it to get access within an appropriate 
period, e. g. by email or as hard copy, unless the customer 
is  not  entitled  to  receive  a  travel  confirmation  because  the 
conclusion  of  a  contract  takes  place  with  the  simultaneous 
physical  presence  of  both  parties  or  it  is  negotiated  away 
from business premises.

1.3. 

 With regard to bookings in e-business (e. g. internet, app) to the 
conclusion of contract the following applies:
a)   In  the  relevant  applications  the  customer  will  be  given  an 

explanation on the procedure of the online booking.

b)   The customer has the possibility to correct or delete his entries, 
or to reset the entire booking form using the offered correction 
options. The usage of the booking form is explained.

c)   The languages of contract necessary for the implementation 

of electronic bookings are indicated. 

d)   Where the wording of a contract is saved by the operator, he 
needs to inform the customer as well as about the possibility 
of a later retrieval of it.

e)   Clicking on the button “Confirm chargeable booking” or a but-
ton with a similar formulation, the customer bindingly offers 
to the operator the conclusion of the contract.

f)    The  receipt  of  the  registration  is  immediately  confirmed  to 

the customer electronically. (Confirmation of receipt).

g)   Transmitting  the  registration  by  clicking  on  the  button,  the 
customer  is  not  given  any  entitlement  to  the  effective  con-
clusion of the contract.

offered the conclusion of the contract by the customer.

h)   The contract comes into effect once the tour operator’s trav-

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
el confirmation has been transmitted on a durable medium 
to the customer. If the travel confirmation shows up on the 
screen  immediately  after  the  button  “Confirm  chargeable 
booking” showed up on the screen, then the contract comes 
into  effect  upon  displaying  this  travel  confirmation.  In  this 
case, an interim announcement of the booking in accordance 
with clause 1.3. f) above is not needed as long as the cus-
tomer is offered the opportunity to save the data on a dura-
ble medium and to print out the travel confirmation. However, 
the  binding  effect  of  the  contract  does  not  depend  on  the 
opportunity of the customer to actually use these possibilities 
of a print-out or data storage.

2. 
2.1. 

2.2. 

2.3. 

2.4. 

2.5. 

2.6. 

Payment terms and delivery of travel documents
 After  the  conclusion  of  the  contract,  a  deposit  of  20%  of  the 
agreed  upon  price  plus  the  cost  of  travel  insurances  entered 
into shall be payable immediately. The balance must be paid four 
weeks prior to departure. 
 If booking and payment takes place up to and including the 8th 
day  before  departure,  payment  can  be  made  in  cash,  by  bank 
transfer, by instant payment, by credit card, via PayPal (however 
Paylater and instalment payments with PayPal are excluded) or 
by SEPA Direct Debit Scheme. For payments using the SEPA Di-
rect Debit Scheme, the special features are as outpointed under 
clause 3. If only an accommodation is booked (hotel only), a pay-
ment by SEPA Direct Debit Scheme is not possible. The operator 
reserves the right to exclude the SEPA Direct Debit Scheme also 
for  other  contracts,  even  after  booking,  in  select  cases.  In  the 
case of payment by credit card, by SEPA Direct Debit Scheme or 
via PayPal, the debit of the account is automatically carried out at 
the respective due dates. Insofar as the payment is not possible 
from  the  account  at  the  respective  due  date,  the  organizer  is 
entitled to charge the customer for actual additional costs (e.g. 
bank or charge-back fees) by way of compensation. 
 If booking and payment takes place less than 8 days before start 
of  the  journey,  payment  is  only  possible  via  PayPal  (however 
Paylater  and  instalment  payments  with  PayPal  are  excluded), 
by  SEPA  Direct  Debit  Scheme,  by  credit  card,  or,  in  case  the 
tour  operator  agrees,  by  instant  payment  (Online  Banking),  or 
no later than 5 days before start of the journey (in this, payment 
receipt  in  the  operator’s  account  is  decisive),    also  by  ordinary 
bank  transfer.  Please  take  into  consideration  the  daily  limit  of 
your credit card. If, contrary to the above regulation, an ordinary 
bank transfer is chosen as the method of payment after the 5th 
day before the start of the journey, this payment shall have no 
guilt-free effect.
 The travel documents will be sent by mail or e-mail to the ad-
dress or e-mail address given at the time of booking after full 
payment has been received, usually approx. 14 days before the 
start of the trip.
 If  the  customer  receives  an  invoice  and  confirmation  directly 
from  the  operator,  payments  with  a  guilt-free  effect  shall  be 
made exclusively to the operator and not to the travel agency.
 The  operator  may  only  demand  payments  or  deposits  on  the 
travel price in case of a package travel – in particular according to 

2

section 2.1. to 2.3. – and only if an effective insolvency protection 
exists and the customer has been given the security certificate 
with the name and contact details of the institution where the 
organiser took out a separate insolvency insurance. This must be 
stated in the security certificate in a clear, understandable, and 
highlighted manner. Since 01.11.2021, the organiser has been 
insured  against  insolvency  via  the  Deutscher  Reisesicherungs-
fonds GmbH (DRSF). 

3. 

3.1. 

3.2. 

3.3. 

Payment by SEPA Direct Debit Scheme
 The  customer’s  payments  made  by  direct  debiting  within  the 
euro payment area and all participating countries are only possi-
ble by means of the so-called “SEPA Direct Debit“ and only with 
the following provisions:
 The  customer  must  give  a  SEPA  direct  debit  mandate  to  the 
operator upon booking. 
 The operator usually informs the customer about the direct debit 
mandate  with  the  invoice  dispatch  (“pre  notification”),  however, 
not  later  than  one  day  before  the  debit  date.  It  is  possible  to 
inform the customer about several direct debit mandates at the 
same time in advance (e. g. deposit and payment of the balance).
 The  amount  recovered  by  the  operator  can  differ  from  the 
amount mentioned in the advance information if one or several 
services had been cancelled, either in whole or in part, or one or 
several services had been added to the booking in the period of 
time between the issuing of the advance information  and the 
due date of the customer’s services.

4. 
4.1. 

Adjustment of prices
 The  operator  reserves  the  right  to  advance  the  agreed  upon 
price in case of 
·  an increase in passenger transport costs due to higher fuel or 

energy costs or 

·  an increase in taxes and other charges for agreed travel servic-

es such as tourist taxes, port dues or airport fees or 

·  changes  in  the  exchange  rates  applicable  to  the  travel  con-

cerned.

4.2. 

4.3. 

4.4. 

 If  the  costs  for  passenger  transport  existing  on  execution  of 
the agreement increase the operator is entitled to increase the 
agreed upon price using the subsequent calculations:
·  The operator may demand the increased amount of the trans-
portation  costs  from  the  customer  insofar  as  the  increased 
amount relates to the seat. 

·  If the carrier increases the prices per means of transportation, 
the additional transportation costs are divided by the number of 
seats for the contractual means of transportation. The resulting 
increase per single place can be demanded from the customer. 
 In the event of an increase in the fees for agreed travel services 
such as tourist taxes, port dues or airport charges or a change 
in  the  relevant  exchange  rate,  the  operator  may  increase  the 
agreed upon price by the corresponding amount per customer.
 In principle, after the conclusion of a contract an increase of the 
price  can  only  be  demanded  until  the  20th  day  before  depar-
ture. The customer shall be informed by the operator on these 
changes  receiving  the  information  about  the  calculation  of  the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
6.1. 

6.2. 

6.3. 

6.4. 

6.5. 

7. 

7.1. 

7.2. 

price increase on a durable medium. In the case of a contract for 
the provision of an accommodation service without further travel 
services  (e.g.  only-hotel,  only-holiday  house,  only-apartment), 
there has to be a period of more than four months between the 
conclusion of the contract and the agreed date of travel. Further-
more,  the  circumstances  leading  to  increased  travel  costs  only 
occurred after contract conclusion and they could not have been 
foreseen by the organiser upon the conclusion of the contract.
 The customer may, in accordance with the regulation in section 
4.4. sentence 1, claim a reduction of the agreed upon price, if 
and to the extent that the costs, taxes, fees or the exchange rates 
had been changed after the conclusion of contract but before the 
commencement of the journey and these changes will result in 
reduced costs for the operator.
 In the event of a price increase by more than 8% of the agreed 
upon  total  price  after  the  conclusion  of  a  contract,  the  opera-
tor offers the customer a corresponding contract change. In this 
case,  the  operator  can  demand  that  the  customer  accepts  the 
offer of modification of the contract, or he rescinds the contract. 
After expiry of the deadline, the offer to change the contract is 
deemed to have been accepted. Alternatively, the operator can 
offer  the  customer  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  a  replace-
ment trip instead of a price increase. 

Changes of service
 Deviations from the agreed upon content of the contract, which 
become  necessary  after  conclusion  of  contract  and  were  not 
caused by bad faith on part of the operator, are allowed as far as 
these deviations are insignificant and do not influence the overall 
travel arrangements.
 The  operator  is  obliged  to  inform  the  customer  about  chang-
es in performance immediately upon knowledge of the reason 
for change. This information must be transmitted on a durable 
medium  (e.  g.  also  e-mail,  SMS,  or  voice  message)  in  a  clear, 
understandable and highlighted manner. 
 If  essential  characteristics  of  travel  performances  deviate  from 
the agreed content of the travel service or from special require-
ments of the customer included in the contract, the customer is 
either entitled to accept the offer of modification of the contract 
or  he  rescinds  the  contract  free  of  charge  or  he  demands  the 
opportunity  to  participate  in  a  replacement  trip,  as  far  as  the 
operator offers such a travel. 
 The customer can decide whether to answer to the operator’s 
message  or  not.  If  he  answers  to  the  operator’s  message,  he 
can either agree on the contract modification or alternatively, the 
operator  can  offer  the  customer  the  opportunity  to  participate 
in  a  replacement  trip  or  to  rescind  from  the  contract  without 
being  charged.  If  the  customer  does  not  answer  or  does  not 
answer within an appropriate period, the change is deemed to 
have been accepted. In accordance with the regulation in section 
5.2., the operator is obliged to inform the customer in plain and 
intelligible language and explicitly highlighted. 
 If the changes or the replacement trip led to a deterioration in 
quality  or  to  a  cost  reduction  on  the  part  of  the  operator,  the 
customer has a claim to an appropriate reduction in price. 

Customer rescission / Rescission costs
 The customer may withdraw from the contract at any time be-
fore the start of the journey. It is recommended to save the no-
tice of cancellation on a durable medium. The date of receipt at 
the operator or at the broker shall be deemed the effective date. 
 If  the  customer  withdraws  from  the  contract  or  does  not  start 
the journey, the tour operator then loses his entitlement to the 
agreed upon price. However, the tour operator may demand an 
appropriate  compensation,  insofar  as  he  is  not  responsible  for 
the resignation from or failure to commence the journey or, in 
the  case  of  a  package  holiday,  if  there  are  unavoidable,  excep-
tional  circumstances  at  the  destination  or  in  the  immediate  vi-
cinity, which have serious impacts on the planned package travel 
or the carriage of people to the destination. Circumstances are 
considered  as  unavoidable  and  exceptional  if  they  are  beyond 
the operator’s control and their consequences could have been 
avoided if the operator had taken all reasonable precautions.
 The operator claims a reimbursement of rescission costs according 
to  the  tables  in  section  17  of  these  terms. The  following  aspects 
should be considered: the period between receipt of the notice of 
declaration of cancellation and the agreed date of travel, type of trav-
el, destination, and the anticipated savings in expenses as well as the 
anticipated savings in acquisition through other use of travel services.
 If the operator invokes a flat compensation according to para. 6.3, 
the customer is nevertheless entitled to give the operator proof 
that a small or no damage occurred.
 The operator reserves the right, instead of the liquidated rescis-
sion costs according to section 6.3 do demand a higher, individ-
ually calculated compensation, if he proves that he has incurred 
much higher expenses than the specific package. In this case, the 
operator is obliged to estimate these differences at his expenses, 
considering saved expenditures and to specifically quantify and 
document any other use of the travel service.

 Changes at customer’s request/ changed bookings / 
right to offer alternative performance
 If a customer demands a change to a booking after concluding 
the travel contract, the change is possible, with the exception of 
the provisions in 7.2., only until 22 days before departure if the 
desired modified service is available according to the operator’s 
programme. Changes to a booking include changes in the date 
of travel, changes in flight schedules, changes of destination or 
accommodation or catering.
 A change to a booking is not possible in the following cases:
a)   A changed booking of the flight performance regarding jour-
neys  including  a  scheduled  flight  and  flexible  travel  (SLRD 
- schauinsland-reisen dynamisch).

b)   Changes in booking a cruise included in a package holiday.
c)   Changes  in  booking  of  specially  marked  offers. The  specific 
conditions  will  be  indicated  before  the  customer  issues  the 
booking confirmation.

d)   Changes in bookings regarding travels containing air transpor-
tation into bookings which do not contain air transportation.
e)   The travel is pre- or postponed by more than 4 weeks from 
the date on which the departure was originally planned.

4.5. 

4.6. 

5. 
5.1. 

5.2. 

5.3. 

5.4. 

3

 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3. 

7.4. 

8. 

9. 
9.1. 

9.2. 

 For changed bookings in terms of para. 7.1., an administrative 
fee of 40,00 € per person will be due in addition to the changed 
price and any additional costs verifiable by the operator, unless a 
changed booking is based on missing, insufficient or inaccurate 
pre-contractual information according to EU Package Travel Di-
rective 2015/2302 vis-à-vis the traveller.
 The customer may request from the operator by means of timely 
notification on a durable data medium that a third party enters 
into the rights and obligations arising from the contract. Such a 
request is in any event reasonable if it reaches the operator 7 
days before the commencement of the journey. Para. 7.3 applies 
mutatis mutandis. The former and the new tour participant are 
jointly  and  severally  liable  for  the  agreed  upon  price  and  the 
additional costs incurred due to the change in the person of the 
tour participant.

Services the customer did not use
 If  the  operator  provided  and  was  willed  to  provide  individual 
travel  services,  which  he  had  to  offer  in  accordance  with  the 
contractual provision, and if the customer does not make use of 
these services, the customer cannot claim to receive a reduction 
in whole or in part of the costs if these reasons would not have 
entitled him to withdraw from the contract free of charge or to 
cancel  the  contract. The  operator  will  endeavour  to  reimburse 
the saved expenses by the service providers upon request if they 
are not entirely negligible expenses.

Rescission and cancellation by the operator
 The operator can terminate the contract for grave cause without 
previous notice. A grave cause exists in particular if the customer 
persistently disturbs the contractual relationship despite a warning 
or behaves contrary to the contract to such an extent that a con-
tinuation of the contract is no longer reasonable for the operator, 
other tour participants or for the service providers involved. This 
also applies if the customer does not comply with factually justified 
instructions. A warning in the meaning of sentence 2 is not nec-
essary for the operator if the customer disturbs the trip in a par-
ticularly gross manner. This is particularly the case when criminal 
offences are committed against employees of the operator, against 
service providers or their employees as well as against other travel 
guests. In the event of cancellation, the operator continues to be 
entitled to the agreed upon price, to the extent that saved expens-
es and benefits from other utilisation of the travel service(s) do not 
arise. Other compensation claims remain unaffected.
 If despite a fixed deadline the customer does not or only partially 
pay  the  agreed  and  due  for  payment  upon  price,  the  operator 
can withdraw from the contract and may demand a compensa-
tion through application of section 6.3. to 6.5. of these conditions. 
The decisive point in time for the calculation of the flat compen-
sation is the expiry of the deadline set in the last reminder.

10.  Flights
10.1.   The  flight  plans  issued  with  the  travel  documents  apply.  Any 
change to the flight schedule or the flight route, even at short 
notice,  are  permitted  within  the  context  of  section  5  of  these 

conditions. The same applies in case of an exchange in aircraft 
and if a second air carrier is deployed. According to section 11 
the operator is obliged to inform the customer immediately af-
ter gaining knowledge of these circumstances. At the destination, 
this information is provided by means of information boards, im-
print in the information folders located in the respective holiday 
complex, by the tour guide or online via a website communicated 
to  the  customer  through  the  travel  documents.  Irrespective  of 
this, it is incumbent on the customers to find out about the re-
turn or transfer times 24 hours before the scheduled departure 
date, either by calling the local representative, reading the infor-
mation folders or online via the provided website.

10.2.   If a customer does not make use of the tour guide’s service be-
cause  he  e.  g.  only  booked  flights  but  no  other  services,  he  is 
obliged to request a confirmation of the departure time by the 
airline at least 24 hours before departure of the return flight. For 
this  purpose,  he  calls  the  telephone  number  indicated  on  the 
verso side of the ticket or inside the booklet containing the tickets 
and the travel vouchers. 

10.3.   In the context of air carriage it is permitted to carry one piece 
of luggage of 15 kg per person as checked luggage. In gener-
al, this case does not apply to infants less than 2 years of age 
without  a  right  to  a  seat. Any  higher  baggage  allowances  and 
excess baggage charges are subject to the conditions of carriage 
of the operating airline. Medication intended for the passenger’s 
own use as well as valuables should be (within the scope of the 
respective prevailing security provisions) carried in cabin luggage. 
In this regard, it is prohibited to take dangerous objects (e. g. nail 
scissors, nail file) with you in your cabin baggage.

10.4.   Check-in-deadline  at  the  check-in-desk  is  120  minutes  be-
fore the departure time printed on the ticket. Exceptions can be 
drawn from the flight schedule. In the event of a no-show at the 
time specified above, the operating airline is entitled to dispose 
of the seat elsewhere.

10.5.   The carriage of pregnant women or sick people can be refused 
by the airline because of the respective safety provisions. During 
pregnancy or in case of an illness at the time of air transport, the 
operator  must  therefore  be  informed  immediately  so  that  any 
restrictions on the transport of the carrier may be clarified with 
the airline in the individual case.

10.6.   Direct  flights  are  not  always  non-stop  flights  and  can  include 

stopovers.

10.7.   Claims  in  cases  of  denied  boarding,  cancellation  and  delay  ac-
cording to EU Regulation No. 261/2004 are not to be addressed 
to  the  operator,  but  exclusively  to  the  respective  operating  air 
carrier (the airline).

11. 

 Information requirements on the identity of the 
operating airline
 The  EU  regulation  on  informing  air  passengers  of  the  identity 
of  the  operating  air  carrier  obliges  the  operator  to  inform  pas-
sengers about the identity of the operating airline which carries 
out all services of the journey in the moment of booking. If the 
customer books the journey and it is not yet certain which airline 
will carry out the flight, the operator must give the customer the 

4

 
 
name of the airline which is likely to operate the flight. As soon as 
the operator knows which airline will carry out the flight, he must 
inform  the  customer.  If  there  is  a  change  in  airline  afterwards 
then the operator must inform the customer about this change. 
Besides, he immediately must take all necessary steps to ensure 
that the customer will be informed about this change as soon as 
possible. The list of airlines which are subject to a ban on operat-
ing in the EU (“Community List”) is available on the following web 
page: https://ec.europa.eu/transport/modes/air/safety/air-ban_en.

 Customer’s cooperation duties 

12. 
12.1.  Travel documents

 The customer has to inform the operator or his travel agent where 
he has booked the travel, if he does not receive the necessary travel 
documents (e.g. ticket, hotel voucher, if necessary, rail & fly voucher) 
within  the  period  notified  by  the  operator.  If  the  customer  fails  to 
inform about missing travel documents, he can be partially blamed, 
if the operator could have assumed that the customer received all 
travel documents on time due to a timely transmission of documents.

12.2.  Notice of defects/demand redress

 If the booked service is not provided free of defects, the customer 
or the participants registered by him may demand redress. If the 
operator cannot find a remedy due to a culpable failure of notice 
of  defect,  although  from  his  side  it  would  have  been  possible 
to  help  and  he  would  have  agreed  on  finding  a  remedy,  the 
customer can neither assert claims for reduction nor claims for 
damages for the persistence of the defect caused by this. 
 The customer or the participants registered by him are obliged 
to immediately notify the operator’s representative on site of any 
defects. If such a representative is not and does not have to be 
available, any defects must be reported to the point of contact 
indicated  in  the  travel  documents  or  to  the  operator’s  on-site 
representative.  However,  the  customer  can  inform  the  travel 
agency, which booked the services, about the defect, too.

12.3.  Fixing of a time limit before contract termination

 If a customer wishes to terminate the contract due to a signifi-
cant defect, he must first set the operator a reasonable deadline 
for remedial action. This does not apply if either the remedy is 
refused by the operator or if immediate remedy is necessary.

12.4.  Special rules and deadlines in case of baggage damage, bag-

gage delay and baggage loss in the context of air carriage
 The customer must immediately notify damaged, lost or delayed 
baggage to the responsible air carrier immediately after discovery, 
in case of damage to and loss of baggage within 7 days of dis-
covery of the damage at the latest, and if the baggage is delayed 
within 21 days of delivery. The reporting of the damage or loss is 
a precondition for the air carrier’s liability. If the customer accepts 
checked in baggage, this establishes the rebuttable presumption 
that it had been delivered undamaged. It is therefore recommend-
ed to report immediately the details of the baggage damage or 
loss to a handling agent of the operating airline at the destination 
airport by filling in a property irregularity report, because normally 
the airlines reject any indemnity payment otherwise. 
 In case of baggage damage and loss, it is advisable to include the 
passenger ticket and baggage check in the damage notification.

 Limitation of liability

13. 
13.1.   The  operator’s  contractual  liability  for  damages  which  are  not 
based on a violation of life, body or health and which have not 
been caused culpably is limited to the triple amount of the travel 
price. Any claims beyond international agreements or based on 
such legal provisions remain unaffected by the restriction. 
13.2.   The  operator  is  not  liable  for  any  defective  performances,  per-
sonal  or  material  damages  connected  to  brokered  services  or 
services  which  were  merely  provided  as  an  external  service 
or are booked by the customer at the holiday destination (e. g. 
excursions, hired car, expositions etc.), but the service provider, 
a third party or another designated operator is responsible for 
these  services. Any  other  liability  regulations  based  on  the  EU 
Package Travel Directive 2015/2302 remain unaffected by this.  
However, the operator is liable if and to the extent that a damage 
suffered by a customer is a result of a failure on the part of the 
operator to fulfil his obligation to inform, explain or organise. 

14. 

 Assertion of claims: addressee; information on the 
settlement of consumer disputes

14.1.   The  customer  must  assert  claims  for  non-contractual  delivery 
of  the  trip  to  the  operator  schauinsland-reisen  gmbh,  Stre-
semann Straße 80, D-47051 Duisburg. The extra-judicial as-
sertion can also be made through the travel agent if the trip was 
booked through this travel agent. It is recommended to provide 
the assertion of claim on a durable medium.

14.2.   Employees of the service provider or the local representative as well as 
airport counter staff and aircrew are not authorised to accept claims. 
Nor are they entitled to acknowledge claims on behalf of the operator. 
14.3.   With regard to the Act on Alternative Dispute Resolution in Con-
sumer Matters the operator points out that he does not participate 
in a voluntary dispute resolution. If a dispute resolution should be-
come obligatory for the operator after the printing of these travel 
conditions, the operator will inform the customer of this in a suit-
able manner. With regard to all contracts concluded in electron-
ic legal transactions, the operator points to the European Online 
Dispute Resolution platform (http://ec.europa.eu/consumers/odr). 

 Passport, visa, and health requirements

15. 
15.1.   Prior to the conclusion of contract, the operator provides an in-
dication  on  passport  and  visa  requirements  as  well  as  health 
formalities of the country in question including the approximate 
deadlines for obtaining any necessary visa. 

15.2.   If the disclosure requirements were dutifully fulfilled by the operator, 
the customer is responsible for obtaining and carrying all required 
health certificates, travel documents, and visas etc. unless the oper-
ator has expressly committed himself to obtaining these documents. 
15.3.   The  customer  is  therefore  responsible  for  obtaining  and  car-
rying the necessary travel documents, including any necessary 
vaccination and for adhering to customs and exchange control 
regulations. Disadvantages arising from the non-observance of 
these regulations, e.g. the payment of cancellation costs, are at 
the customer‘s expense. This will not apply if the customers were 
inadequately  or  incorrectly  informed  by  the  operator  despite  a 
corresponding obligation on behalf of the operator.

5

 
 
 
 
 
 
15.4.   The operator is not liable for the timely issuance and receipt of 
necessary  visas  by  the  respective  diplomatic  representation,  if 
the  customer  has  instructed  him  with  the  errand,  unless  the 
operator has culpably violated his own duties. 

is necessary to carry out the journey or due to mandatory legal 
regulations or official measures.  Our complete privacy policy can 
be found on our website at: https://www.schauinsland-reisen.de/
kompakt/datenschutzerklaerung. Please read our privacy policy.

16. 

 Data protection
 The  customer’s  data  are  collected,  stored  and  processed  by 
means of data processing systems under applicable data protec-
tion laws. Customer data will only be disclosed to the extent which 

17. 

 Rescission costs
 The  following  tables  reflect  the  relevant  liquidated  reimburse-
ment of travel rescission costs by specifying a percentage of the 
agreed upon price:

17.1.   Liquidated reimbursement of rescission costs according to section 6.3. in percent of the agreed upon price for package tours with charter 

or scheduled flights, river cruises and flight-only tours (charter):

Flat-rate cancellation compensation in accordance with Section 6.3. as a percentage of the agreed-upon price for package tours with charter or scheduled flights,  
river cruises and flight-only trips (charter):
Destination

In the event of a cancellation (in each case before the agreed-upon start of the trip)

For trip start date

up to 90 days 89 to 30 days 29 to 22 days 21 to 15 days 14 to 7 days

6 to 4 days

3 days or less 

Egypt / Canary Islands / Cape Verde /  
Portugal (incl. Madeira)

Balearic Islands

Greece / Cyprus

Turkey / Tunisia / Malta / Morocco

Maldives / United Arab Emirates

Asia / Caribbean / Mauritius / USA / Tanzania 
· with a charter flight
· with a scheduled flight

Other mainland Europe

Other package tours with a sea voyage component

River cruises in Europe

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–25.3.  
26.3.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–25.3. 
26.3.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.
1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–25.3.
26.3.–31.10.

1.11.-31.10.

1.11.-31.10.

20 %

15 % 
20 %

20 %

15 % 
20 %

35 %

25 %
35 %

15 %
20 %

25 %

25 %

25 %

20 % 
25 %

25 %

15 % 
25 %

40 %

30 %
40 %

15 %
25 %

30 %

30 %

35 %

25 % 
35 %

35 %

25 % 
35 %

45 %

40 %
45 %

25 %
35 %

40 %

40 %

45 %

40 % 
45 %

45 %

35 % 
45 %

55 %

50 %
55 %

35 %
45 %

50 %

50 %

65 %

60 % 
65 %

65 %

45 % 
65 %

65 %

60 %
65 %

45 %
65 %

65 %

65 %

75 %

75 % 
80 %

75 %

65 % 
75 %

80 %

75 %
80 %

65 %
75 %

80 %

80 %

80 %

80 % 
85 %

85 %

80 % 
80 %

90 %

85 %
90 %

80 %
80 %

90 %

90 %

17.2.   Liquidated reimbursement of travel recession costs of the travel price (in %) in accordance with section 6.3 for contracts on accommoda-

tion services without any further travel services (e. g. hotel only, holiday house only, apartment only): 

Flat-rate cancellation compensation in accordance with Section 6.3. as a percentage of the agreed-upon price in the case of contracts for the provision of accommodation services 
without further travel services (e.g. hotel-only, holiday flat-only, holiday home-only):
Destination

In the event of a cancellation (in each case before the agreed-upon start of the trip)

For trip start date

Egypt / Greece / Cape Verde / Malta / Morocco / Portugal 
(incl. Madeira) / Turkey / Tunisia / Cyprus

Canary Islands

Balearic Islands

Cityhotels Barcelona and Madrid

Maldives / United Arab Emirates

Asia / Caribbean / Mauritius / USA / Tanzania

Germany / Austria / Switzerland / Benelux / France / Po-
land
· Holiday home, holiday flat, holiday studio flat
· Hotel

Other mainland Europe

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–25.3. 
26.3.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.

1.11.–31.10.
1.11.–31.10.

1.11.-31.10.

up to 45 days

from 44 to 25 days

24 to 4 days

3 days or less

25 %

25 %

25 % 
25 %

50 %

40 %

25 %

50 %
25 %

25 %

40 %

60 %

40 % 
60 %

80 %

60 %

40 %

80 %
40 %

40 %

80 %

85 %

80 % 
85 %

90 %

90 %

80 %

90 %
80 %

80 %

15 %

15 %

15 % 
15 %

25 %

25 %

15 %

25 %
15 %

15 %

6

 
 
17.3.   Liquidated reimbursement of travel rescission costs in accordance with section 6.3 in percent of the agreed upon price for flight-only 

(scheduled flight):

Flat-rate cancellation compensation in accordance with Section 6.3. as a percentage of the agreed-upon price for flight-only bookings with a scheduled flight:

Destination

all destinations

For trip start date

In the event of a cancellation (in each case before the agreed-upon start of the trip)

1.11.–31.10.

up to 90 days

75 %

89 days or less

90 %

Organiser
schauinsland-reisen gmbh,
Stresemannstraße 80, D-47051 Duisburg
t +49 203 994050
f +49 203 400168

As of 1 May 2023

7

